\documentclass[a4paper]{article}

\usepackage{authblk}

\usepackage{hyperref}

\hypersetup{
  pdfauthor = {Nikolaos Pothitos},
  pdftitle = {Annual Report for the PhD Thesis "Constraint
              Programming: Algorithms and Systems"}
}

\begin{document}

\title{Annual Report for the PhD Thesis ``Constraint
       Programming: Algorithms and Systems''}

\author{Nikolaos Pothitos ($\Delta$541)}

\affil{\normalsize
       Department of Informatics and Telecommunications \\
       National and Kapodistrian University of Athens \\
       Panepistimiopolis, 157\,84 Athens, Greece \\
       pothitos@di.uoa.gr}

\date{Academic Year 2016--2017}

\maketitle

This dissertation is supervised by Prof.~Panagiotis
Stamatopoulos.


\section{Naxos Solver Development}

In the past academic year, we published our Constraint
Programming library \textsc{Naxos Solver} according to the
open source community standards~\cite{Naxos}.

Declarativity is a \textsc{Naxos} key feature and it has to
do with describing problems and search methods
independently. \textsc{Naxos} serves the Constraint
Programming principle: \emph{The user states the problem,
the computer solves it}~\cite{Freuder2014}.

It supports the definition of custom search methods via a
declarative API, which is outlined in the next section.


\section{Building Search Methods with Self-confidence}

This is the title of the journal article we already
submitted~\cite{Pothitos2017} as an extension of our
conference paper ``Piece of Pie Search: Confidently
Exploiting Heuristics''~\cite{Pothitos2016-PoPS}.

In the late 1990s, \emph{Constrained Programming} (CP)
promised to separate the declaration of a problem from the
process to solve it. We attempt to serve this direction, by
implementing and presenting a modular way to defile
\emph{search methods} that seek solutions to arbitrary
\emph{Constraint Satisfaction Problems} (CSPs). The user
just declares their CSP, and it can be solved using a
portfolio of search methods already in place.

We allow the user\slash programmer to state their own
\emph{search methods} that can apply to any CSP. We found a
framework where the user can compose their search methods
out of conjunctive and disjunctive goals.


\section{Future Work}

In the current academic year we are going to investigate the
advantages of enforcing lightweight consistency levels into
constraint networks~\cite{Bessiere2006}.

\bibliographystyle{alpha}
\bibliography{bibliography}

\end{document}
